<h1>PDX API</h1> JSONP API for Portland, OR civic data

h2. About

PDXAPI is a "GeoCouch":http://www.github.com/vmx/couchdb instance populated with data from the City of Portland, Oregon through "CivicApps":http://www.civicapps.org. There are utilities included to convert legacy GIS data such as Shapefiles and load them into CouchDB. Out of the box CouchDB provides a RESTy JSON API to all of the data.

h2. Project Goals

* Create an easily consumable data resource for developers interested in utilizing Portland civic data
* Modify and build upon the city's publicly released data by allowing users to edit and contribute data, and even start whole new datasets
* Create automated processes for synchronizing with the original data sources (City of Portland, Metro, TriMet)
* Create tools and examples for developers to use as a jumping off point for creating 'civic apps'
* Emphasize wiki-style revision history and conflict management/dispute resolution when users contribute to datasets

h2. Developers

p. See "pdxapi.com":http://pdxapi.com for more information and example usage.

p. Note: GeoCouch is still under active development and may act wonky sometimes. Certain datasets are more cumbersome than others. As GeoCouch matures this will be less of an issue. To view the data in GeoCouch directly you can visit "http://data.pdxapi.com/_utils":http://data.pdxapi.com/_utils

p. The basic usage is to ask PDXAPI for all objects in a database contained within a particular bounding box. You can see an example of this on the PDXAPI.com homepage. You will receive a GeoJSON feature collection that contains any matching objects. Each object consists of some location data and an ID that you can use to look up metadata for the object by asking http://pdxapi.com/@dataset@/@id@

p. If you are the first to ask for a particular query inside of a dataset, you may experience a delay before your first query is returned. This is because GeoCouch is building a spatial index on the geometry contained within the dataset. I have attempted to prune out the datasets that break GeoCouch. If you feel that a dataset is not responding correctly, email me and I will be happy to investigate.

p. If you want to play around with a local copy of the data, the easiest way to get data from CivicApps is to download all of the datasets into a PostGIS instance. See the @installer.rb@ utility for instructions on how to load a database with CivicApps data.

p. You can use the @postgis_export@ utility to take the data from PostGIS and generate a json file for each dataset. You can then use the @couchpush@ utility to load the JSON files into CouchDB

h2. Related Projects

* "Food Cart Pages":http://foodcartpages.com is an example web application that uses PDXAPI as it's data store.
* "Food Cart Finder Mobile":http://github.com/maxogden/pdx-food-carts-mobile is an example mobile application (native iPhone and Android) that uses PDXAPI as it's data store.

h2. License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Max Ogden

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
